Title: Dealing with touch
Date: 2019-10-05
Category: misc
Tags: touch, sensory, sensivity
Slug: touch-sensitivity
Authors: Annanda Sousa
Status: draft

Hello!
I cannot believe I am finally back on blogging! I've been wanting to come back for some time now, but I could not find the time to create my blog again. For the first post of this new blog, I will re-post a reviewed version of one of my last posts from my previous blog, it is about how I deal with touch.

I decided to write in my blog about more personal things. Today I will talk about my problems with touch. Maybe I could call it "sensitivity" instead of "problems". In general, I don't like when people touch me at all, but I especially dislike when people touch me without me expecting it:  when someone tries to catch my attention by touching me, I don't like it al all. I don't like to be touched because I feel as something with fire or electricity is touching my skin and this sensation remains for some time after the touch. It makes me uneasy, for some time I can only think about this sensation and how it troubles me. I can't handle very well with hugs too. Don't get me wrong, I like hugs, but I kind of have a limit. If you hug me for too long, it's awful to me. I feel as I'm suffocating, it seems I just can't breathe. It happens even with people who I love and are close to me. Even with my siblings and my parents. My youngest sister loves to hug me and I frequently recoil myself under her hug. Same with my youngest brother. I love them with my life but I just can't manage it. One beloved friend of mine likes to hug me too long and this makes me feel awkward. After his hug, I spend a lot of time trying to come back to normal because it makes me feel uneasy. And I can't say it to him because it's too difficult for me. I know he hugs me like that because he is demonstrating that I'm a special friend to him. Same thing with my mom. My mom used to talk with me touching my arm. Oh my goodness, just to remember that make me feel uneasy. When she does that I can't even understand what she is saying. But I can't say to her stop to do that. - Yeah, I have problems with saying things to people. I hate when I hurt someone's feelings and because of that, I prefer to suffer from these things then take a chance of hurt people, especially those who are special to me. I also have issues with my boyfriend. Don't get me wrong, I love when my boyfriend touches me but not always. Even though I love his touch and it makes me feel so good, there are sometimes that I can't handle. In these times I shrink under his touch. I am a very very lucky girl because my boyfriend is so understanding. He understands me and knows that when I am like this I need to be left alone for a while and he does it without thinking that it is something related to him. Because it's not. This is the way I am. And after some time I go to him and hug him like saying: "It's ok you touch me now\". And he understands. One day he even asked me: "I'm going to hug you now, is that ok?". I can't express how much it meant to me! I could prepare myself for the touch. It made all the difference. Also, it meant to me that he understands and respects my needs. Nobody has the right to always touch you, even if this person is close. I think that one of the reasons I love cats so much is that. My cat is just like me in this matter. When I try to catch him to pet, if he doesn\'t feel like it, he runs away. And after a while, in his own time, he comes back asking for love hehe. I completely understand my cat. I already had problems in a PyCon brazil related to this question. One acquaintance of mine touched my waist in a way that set me off. I just told you that I have issues with people touching my arm or shoulder, can you imagine how it was to be a boy that wasn't even my friend to touch my waist? I got mad! I shrunk and told him:  "Don't touch me, I don't like people touching me!" (I can\'t yell at people but I did my best). He thought I was just kidding and laughed and touched me again!!!!!! I said stop again, ran away and spent a lot of time holding back tears. It was an awful experience. I talked to the code of conduct commission about it and they gave me support and friendly understanding. But please, if you know me or meet me don't be afraid to talk to me. If you are close to me you can even hug me! I won't bite you. I will receive your gesture of affection and be happy. Just don't hold me too long or touch me without I expect, even better: avoid to touch me hahaha. And the most important: try to put yourself in my shoes and know that you are special to me, even though I can\'t deal with touch and hugs like most the people. 